Boxers brawl after Klitschko defeat
At a press conference after Ukrainian Klitschko had beaten his opponent on points, the British pair became embroiled in an angry exchange before Chisora left the stage to confront former WBA heavyweight champ Haye and a scuffle ensued. The sparring duo were eventually pulled apart with Chisora accusing Haye of striking him with a bottle before threatening to "shoot" and "burn" his rival. Can boxing climb out of the gutter? The UK Press Association reported Sunday that Chisora had been detained by German police as he prepared to return to Britain, and later released without charge. They are also keen to speak to Haye but his whereabouts remain unknown. Chisora slaps heavyweight champion Klitschko at weigh-in The drama ensued when Klitschko, who was awarded the fight by a unanimous points decision, and Chisora faced the press shortly after their bout. Haye, who was comprehensively defeated by Vitali's brother Wladimir in July last year, also attended. Haye, who had been covering the fight for a UK television station, reacted angrily when Klitschko's manager Bernd Boente told reporters: "With the bad experience we've had with British fighters we will now look for other countries. Contrary to David Haye, Dereck Chisora really went for it and really tried." At this point Haye, who had been keen to come out of retirement to face Vitali, interjected to say: "You don't want to fight David Haye, no?" Boente replied: "You had an offer, you didn't accept it, now you are out. You are out. You cannot talk yourself back into the fight, you have no belts. Chisora showed heart, contrary to you. "You showed your toe (Haye claimed his poor performance against Wladimir was due to suffering a broken toe before the fight)." Chisora then left the stage to confront Haye after the pair had traded insults at which point the scuffle ensued. Haye's manager Adam Booth tried to separate the two and suffered a cut to his head. After the boxers were pulled apart, Chisora accused Haye of hitting him with a bottle and was heard to say "If David don't fight me, I am going to physically burn him." He also said on four separate occasions that he would "shoot" Haye. Vitali, who took his record to 44 wins from 46 fights with victory, later told Sky News: "If you are sportsman with millions of people watching you have to set a good example, and Chisora didn't do that." His brother Wladimir added: "I'm totally disappointed, it went a little too far, the sport of boxing shouldn't be like that. Bloody faces in the news conference... fighting in the ring, not out. I'm really surprised." Chisora caused controversy on Friday when he slapped Vitali at the weigh-in ahead of the fight. Moments before the fight began, he also spat water in Vitali's face. The British boxer has a career record of 15 wins and three defeats from his 18 professional fights, and has a history of creating talking points. He planted a kiss on Derek Baker at the weigh-in before their fight in 2010 before knocking his opponent out in round two. 
