Prosecutors: Keep Sandusky inside
Judge John Cleland said that he is aiming for a May 14 trial date for the former coach, who is accused of sexually abusing young boys over a 15-year period. Prosecutors have said Sandusky should stay indoors because neighbors fear for the safety of children at a nearby elementary school. "He should be forbidden to be outside his home in proximity to a school playground, where his presence alarms teachers and members of the public," Pennsylvania's attorney general said in a motion filed this week. Sandusky has been under house arrest since December. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges. Neighbors have expressed "grave concerns" about seeing Sandusky repeatedly outside his house, which borders a playground, prosecutors said. "I'm associated with thousands of young people over the years," Sandusky told reporters Friday. "And now all of a sudden these people turn on me when they've been in my home with their kids." "It's difficult for me to understand," he said. Sandusky asked a judge two weeks ago to modify the terms of his bail so he could see his grandchildren or contact them via phone. His lawyer argued that Sandusky's "11 minor grandchildren ... have expressed their sadness to their parents about not being able to visit or talk" with him, court documents said. Prosecutors blasted Sandusky's request to see his grandchildren, saying the former Penn State coach should not be allowed to treat his house arrest like "a house party." Along with being allowed to contact his grandchildren, Sandusky also asked the judge to allow his friends to visit his home and that he be allowed to travel to meet with his attorney and private investigators working on his case. That request also drew a strong response from prosecutors. "(Sandusky) was fortunate to be granted house arrest when he is alleged to have committed at least 52 sexual offenses against innocent children," prosecutors said in court motions. "He has been granted the privilege of being confined in his home, which is spacious and private, and where he can eat food of his own preference and sleep in his bed at night." Sandusky's lawyer, Joe Amendola, said he provided the court with statements from five of Sandusky's children supporting the request to visit him. 
