Prince Harry moves next door to William
Harry took a small apartment at Kensington Palace after moving out of the bedroom and study he occupies at nearby Clarence House - the home of his father, Prince Charles. The move, on the heels of this month's successful official tour of the Caribbean, is seen as a sign that the increasingly mature 27-year-old is putting his wild past behind him. It also appears to be evidence of the strong bonds between Harry and William, the brothers who will lead and define Britain's royal family over the next few decades. Watch Harry talk about "emotional trip" to Caribbean Harry is understood to have been looking to move into his own place for some time, and is becoming William and Kate's neighbor because the brothers "wanted to be together," a senior royal source told CNN. "Prince Harry and Prince William are a double act for the rest of their lives," the source said. "They are very loyal and trust each other. Loyalty is key. Harry is very respectful towards William." William and Kate, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, currently live in Nottingham Cottage, in the grounds of Kensington Palace, but will move into a renovated apartment in the main building in 2013. Harry, third in line to the British throne, is then expected to take over the cottage. Kensington Palace was home to both the princes when they were being brought up by their mother Diana, the Princess of Wales, who lived there from 1981 until her death in 1997. While Harry's Caribbean tour saw him graduate as a representative of the British royal family , the prince's official duties are expected to take a back seat to his military career in the immediate future. According to the royal source, Harry relishes the ordinary treatment he receives as a captain and Apache helicopter pilot in Britain's Army Air Corps. Read more on Harry's career as a helicopter pilot His colleagues say they often forget his royal status. Kayon Mills, a Jamaican lieutenant who trained with Harry at Britain's Sandhurst military academy, told CNN the prince's nickname was "Harry Potter." Captain Wales, as he is officially known, is preparing for deployment later this year to Afghanistan, where he served briefly four years ago until a broken media embargo led to him being rushed home. There is not expected to be a news blackout this time. The royal source says but the prince won't require extra security despite being a potential priority Taliban target. "The thinking is that being an Apache pilot is quite an anonymous job and the Apache is already a target," he said. "They can't be more of a target than they already are." 
