Madonna stalker caught after escape
Robert Dewey Hoskins, 54, had walked away from Metropolitan State Hospital in the Los Angeles suburb of Norwalk on February 3, police said. He had served a 10-year prison sentence for stalking the "Material Girl," police said, and a court order requires him to be in a facility receiving mental health treatment until the end of August 2012. Los Angeles Police Sgt. Mitzi Fierro told HLN's Nancy Grace that she hadn't been told whether any new charges will be filed against Hoskins. "At this point they are returning him to the facility, and I believe that will be determined by the detectives who will investigate -- number one, his ability to walk away from the facility and, number two, if he violated anything from that point on," Fierro said. The facility he was in is not secured, and it was unclear Friday whether Hoskins escaped or walked out on his own, investigators told CNN. He was receiving treatment to get acclimated to society again and was supervised by a civilian staff and not officers, detectives said. Because of the court order, Hoskins was deemed an "escapee," detectives said. Investigators had been looking for him in the Long Beach area because some of his arrest records come from that community, detectives said. Prior to his arrest Friday, Los Angeles police issued a warning to the public saying Hoskins "is highly psychotic when not taking his medication and has very violent tendencies." Hoskins may have taken a bus to the Long Beach area, police said. He stalked Madonna all over California in the early 1990s, CNN affiliate KCAL reported. He threatened to cut her from "ear to ear" if she did not marry him, the affiliate reported. He was arrested in 1995. The following year at his trial, Madonna -- born Madonna Louise Ciccone -- testified that Hoskins repeatedly scaled the fence of her home and made her have nightmares, the affiliate reported. Fresh off her Super Bowl halftime performance, Madonna is set for a world tour to be launched in Tel Aviv, Israel, on May 29. The European portion of the tour will have 26 shows, including stops in London, Paris, Milan and Berlin. The North American portion of her worldwide extravaganza also includes 26 cities, with the first stop in Philadelphia on August 28. 
