Police: Guard killed partner, took $2M
Kenneth Konias Jr. remains at large, is in possession of at least three handguns, and is believed to be within the United States, said Pittsburgh Police Commander Thomas Stangrecki. "We've had some tips come in and we are still are continuing our investigation," he said. "But right now we have not located Mr. Konias." According to the criminal complaint, a witness heard a gunshot coming from an armored truck carrying deposits around 1 p.m. ET Tuesday. Surveillance video shows the vehicle in the parking lot where the shot was overheard. The truck was later discovered under a Pittsburgh bridge by the company's employees and two police detectives. Michael Haines was found dead inside, having been shot in the head, authorities said. The complaint notes that a friend of Konias' had received a phone call from the suspect at around 1:05 p.m. Tuesday. "I f***ed up," said Konias, according to the complaint. "My life is over." The friend then asked if he was having a bad day at work or had impregnated someone. Konias responded, "Worse than that." The friend then asked, "What, did you kill someone?" Konias was silent for several seconds and then answered, "Yes." CNN can not independently verify that account. His mother, Renee Konias, told police at about 1:45 p.m. Tuesday that she had received a "strange call" from her son asking to speak to his father, but she told him that he would have to call the house to reach him. Police said that when his mother attempted to call him back, Konias answered once and hung up abruptly, and then did not answer at all. His cell phone was later recovered by police. According to the complaint, Konias drove home after allegedly shooting his partner, where his father then saw him drop off a blood spattered work jacket. He is accused of criminal homicide, theft of the victim's gun, and robbery of the cash inside the armored vehicle. The armored truck company, Garda Cash Logistics, said, "We are deeply saddened at the death of our colleague and extend our condolences to his family." "We are continuing to assist law enforcement in its investigation of this incident," the company said in a statement. Garda is offering a reward of up to $100,000 for any information leading to the arrest and conviction of Konias. He was last seen driving a champagne-colored 2006 Ford Explorer with a Pennsylvania license plate listed as GZW-4572. Police say the man should be considered armed and dangerous, and are asking anyone with information to call the Pittsburgh Homicide Office at 412-323-7161 or to call 911. 
