Funeral set for Ohio shooting victim
The shooting occurred Monday in the Chardon High School's cafeteria where authorities say T.J. Lane opened fire at the students. Two other students were hospitalized and another was grazed by gunfire. The shooting rocked the school and the community of 5,100 people about 30 miles east of Cleveland. Students returned to school Friday as they tried to return to resume their daily routines. Grief counselors and police were on hand, and the principal led a moment of silence. "Everyone is here for each other," Senior Garrett Szalay said. "But a lot of us are moving on." Authorities say T.J. Lane, 17, is responsible and charged him with three counts of aggravated murder, two of attempted aggravated murder and one of felonious assault. The latter is related to the student who was "nicked in the ear" by a bullet, according to Geauga County Prosecuting Attorney David Joyce. Friday marked the first full school day since the incident, a return that administrators and staff touted as key to helping people through the healing process. Staff spent two days working on the transition and expressed confidence that they'll be ready to provide comfort and support to those still trying to make sense of this week's carnage, School superintendent Joseph Bergant said. Frank Hall, an assistant football coach and study hall teacher who chased the gunman from the school, said Thursday it was important that students and staff return -- if for no other reason than to "show that terror and evil do not win out." "I'm here to tell you that tomorrow our schools will be open, our teachers will be there, our administration will be there, our parents and community, but more important our children will be there," Hall said. Meanwhile, the legal process continues. Joyce, the prosecuting attorney, filed charges against Lane on Thursday in juvenile court. The defendant's next court appearance will be Tuesday and a hearing scheduled for March 19 will discuss a motion to transfer his case to an adult court. The murder charges state that the teenager "purposely and with prior calculation and design" fatally shot three people while at Chardon High. The prosecutor has said that the sophomore confessed that he took a .22-caliber gun and a knife into the school Monday morning and fired 10 rounds as frightened students and some teachers ran for cover. By the time the bloodshed ended, three were killed: Parmertor, who died Monday; Demetrius Hewlin, 16, who died Tuesday morning; and Russell King Jr., 17, who was declared brain dead Tuesday. Lane's friends have said that the teen had a troubled childhood. His parents had both been charged with domestic violence against each other, according to court documents. His father also served prison time for assaulting a police officer and was charged with holding a different woman under running water and bashing her head into a wall. "I think there's a lot of kids that go through things like that. That doesn't give them the right to kill other people," said Bob Parmertor, Daniel Parmertor's grandfather. " No one has the right to shoot other people because they've had a rough life." 
